BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:

2020 was a year like no other. The COVID-19 pandemic brought extraordinary challenges to our country and the world. Berkshire was not immune to these difficulties, but our diverse collection of businesses and fortress-like balance sheet allowed us to weather the storm.

Operating Results

Berkshire's operating earnings totaled $21.9 billion in 2020, down from $23.9 billion in 2019. The decline was primarily attributable to reduced earnings at our railroad and certain manufacturing businesses, partially offset by improved results at GEICO.

We made one particularly painful decision during the year: we sold our entire positions in the four major U.S. airlines. This was a mistake on my part. I bought into the airline business when it appeared that the industry had finally achieved the discipline needed to maintain pricing. COVID-19 changed that calculus entirely.

The airline industry will recover, but in a world where business travel is diminished, the economics will be different. We took our loss and moved on.

Cash and Capital Allocation

Berkshire ended the year with $138.3 billion in cash and Treasury bills. Some observers have criticized us for holding so much cash. They argue we should be deploying it or returning it to shareholders.

My answer is simple: we will deploy this cash when we find opportunities that meet our criteria. In a world awash with liquidity, finding businesses at sensible prices has become increasingly difficult. Private equity firms, SPACs, and aggressive corporate acquirers have driven prices to levels that make no sense to us.

We did repurchase $24.7 billion of Berkshire stock during 2020, our largest annual buyback ever. At the prices prevailing during parts of the year, repurchases were clearly the best use of our capital.

Insurance

Our insurance operations performed well despite the extraordinary circumstances. Float grew to $138.1 billion, and we achieved an underwriting profit for the 18th consecutive year.

The pandemic created significant uncertainty in the insurance industry. Claims patterns shifted dramatically. Business interruption coverage became a contentious issue. Through it all, our underwriters maintained their discipline.

GEICO gained market share as consumers shopped more aggressively for auto insurance. Telematics and digital capabilities became more important than ever.

Looking Forward

I have no idea what the economy will look like a year from now. The virus has created unprecedented uncertainty. What I do know is this: Berkshire will be fine regardless of what happens.

Our businesses are essential. Our balance sheet is strong. Our managers are capable. And our shareholders are patient.

We are positioned for whatever comes next.


Warren E. Buffett
Chairman of the Board

February 27, 2021
